CSE3221 Assignment #1
 
You have to work individually. You are not allowed to view or exchange documents with your peers. We treat all sorts of cheating very seriously. Do not copy code from anywhere, even as a "template''. No late submission will be accepted. Your work will be graded based on: i) correctness of programming logic; ii) clarity of your code and your coding style; iii) whether your code follows the specification. It is your responsibility to explain clearly every detail you do in the code with appropriate comments to avoid any possible confusion in marking.
 
You are required to process several data sets and calculate certain values based on their content. Each data sample is a floating-point number. Each data set consists of many data samples and each data set is stored in a file. The file format is that all data samples in this data set are separated by whitespace in the file.  As example, we have posted three data sets on the course Web: dataset1, dataset2, dataset3, for your reference. However, your program should be able to process any number of data sets.

Write a C program, called process.c, to do the calculation concurrently with multiple processes. The program first reads the file names of all data sets from the command line. For each data set, it creates a child process. Each child process reads the data samples from its file and calculates: i) the sum of the smallest and the largest data sample values in the dataset (sum = min + max); ii) the difference between the smallest and the largest data sample values in the dataset (dif = min - max). Then the child process sends the calculated sum and dif values to the main process via a Unix pipe. The main process will print to the standard output the file name of the data set followed by the received sum and dif values and the min and max values (derived from the sum and dif values in the main process.) The output of one data set occupies one line as shown below. You may structure your code either as i) waiting for all child processes to finish then processing their data in the order the children were created or ii) waiting for any child to finish and processing its data then repeating this untill all children are finished (more difficult but may earn you some extra credit). Finally the main program, based on the received values, calculates the mimimum and the maximum values (just 2 values) for all samples in all datasets and prints them to the standard output. The output of the main program should be as follows:
     Filenamei  SUM=sumi DIF=difi MIN=mini MAX=maxi
     Filenamej  SUM=sumj DIF=difj MIN=minj MAX=maxj
     …
     MINIMUM=minimum  MIXIMUM=maximum
 
Write a Pthread C program, called thread.c, to repeat the above calculation concurrently with multiple threads. The program creates a thread to process each data set. Each thread does the calculations for its data set and passes the results to the main program. The main program waits for all threads to finish and, based on the obtained values, calculates and prints the final results to the standard output in the same format as above.
 
Your programs should compile as follows:
 
cc -o prs process.c
cc -o thr thread.c -lpthread
 
And the programs should run as follows (all datasets are provided as command line arguments):
 
prs dataset1 dataset2 dataset3
thr dataset1 dataset2 dataset3
 
What to submit?
 
Submit two C programs using the following commands:
 
submit 3221 a1 process.c
 
submit 3221 a1 thread.c